CNV-21826: Configuring VM for DPDK (#58584)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-configuring-cluster-dpdk.adoc

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label node <node_name> node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk=""
---- 

. Create a new `MachineConfigPool` manifest that contains the `worker-dpdk` label in the `spec.machineConfigSelector` object:
+
.Example `MachineConfigPool` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: dpdk-workers
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: dpdk-workers
    pools.operator.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/dpdk-workers: ""
spec:
  configuration:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions:
      - key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role
        operator: In
        values:
          - worker
          - worker-dpdk
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: ""
----

. Generate a performance profile by using the Performance Profile Creator (PPC) command-line tool, which is part of the Node Tuning Operator. The PPC requires the following arguments:
** `mcp-name`: The machine config pool name corresponding to the target machines. 
** `reserved-cpu-count`: The number of reserved CPUs for house keeping. 

> ** `rt-kernel`: Enable real-time kernel.

Author: Okay, but here is the documentation for the PPC in case you are interested: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/scalability_and_performance/cnf-create-performance-profiles.html

> ** `rt-kernel`: Enable real-time kernel.

Reviewer: Thank you

+
.Example `PerformanceProfile` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
kind: PerformanceProfile
metadata:
  name: profile-1
spec:
  cpu:
    isolated: 2-39,42-79
    reserved: 0,1,40,41
  hugepages:
    defaultHugepagesSize: "1G"
    pages:
      - count: 32
        size: "1G"
  numa:
    topologyPolicy: "single-numa-node"
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: "" 
----

> 

Reviewer: After applying these two manifests, there should be a gradual reboot of the relevant nodes.
Please consider adding a note about it.

Author: Does the user initiate the node reboot or does it happen automatically when the MCP and PP manifests are applied?

Author: @orelmisan Does this sound okay: 

> Perform a graceful restart of the compute nodes after you apply the `MachineConfigPool` and `PerformanceProfile`manifests.

I can also link to this procedure if it is relevant: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-rebooting.html#nodes-nodes-rebooting-gracefully_nodes-nodes-rebooting

Reviewer: > Does the user initiate the node reboot or does it happen automatically when the MCP and PP manifests are applied?

The nodes are automatically rebooted.
I don't know if the user has the ability to manually control this process.

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object with the `spec.deviceType` field set to `vfio-pci`:
+
.Example `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: policy-1
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  resourceName: intel_nics_dpdk
  deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 9000
  numVfs: 4
  priority: 99
  nicSelector:
    vendor: "8086"
    deviceID: "1572"
    pfNames:
      - eno3
    rootDevices:
      - "0000:19:00.2"
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true"
----

> . Set the container runtime configuration for the `virt-launcher` pod by adding the following annotation to the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR):

Reviewer 2: Sounds good (although I still hope to replace it with the performance profile global)

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate --overwrite -n openshift-cnv hco kubevirt-hyperconverged \
    kubevirt.kubevirt.io/jsonpatch='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/configuration/defaultRuntimeClass", \

>     "value": <runtimeclass-name>}]'

Author: I think it renders fine in the preview, the spacing is somehow not showing up correctly in the file view.

Preview:  https://58584--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.html#virt-configuring-cluster-dpdk_virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network

>     "value": <runtimeclass-name>}]'

Reviewer: There is a redundant backslash that should be removed.
IIRC it breaks the command.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-cluster-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a cluster for DPDK workloads

> Use this procedure to configure an {product-title} cluster to run Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workloads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the following procedure to configure an {product-title} cluster to run Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workloads.
```

:FeatureName: Configuring a cluster for DPDK workloads
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Prerequisites
* You have access to the cluster as a user with `cluster-admin` permissions.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.
* You have installed the Node Tuning Operator.

.Procedure 

> . Map your compute nodes topology to determine which Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) CPUs will be isolated for DPDK applications and which ones will be reserved for the OS.

Reviewer 3: I know in IBM style we try to avoid the future tense and passive voice as much as we can, which this sentence has a bit of. It still reads fine to me, and I can't think of a suggestion, but I just wanted to make you aware 😄.

Author: Reworded to use present tense

> . Label a subset of the compute nodes with a custom role, for example, `worker-dpdk`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Label a subset of the compute nodes with a custom role. For example, `worker-dpdk`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label node <node_name> node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk=""
---- 

. Create a new `MachineConfigPool` manifest that contains the `worker-dpdk` label in the `spec.machineConfigSelector` object:
+
.Example `MachineConfigPool` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
metadata:
  name: dpdk-workers
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: dpdk-workers
    pools.operator.machineconfiguration.openshift.io/dpdk-workers: ""
spec:
  configuration:
  machineConfigSelector:
    matchExpressions:
      - key: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role
        operator: In
        values:
          - worker
          - worker-dpdk
  nodeSelector:
    matchLabels:
      node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: ""
----

> . Create a `PerformanceProfile` manifest that applies to the labeled nodes and the machine config pool that you created in step 2. The performance profile specifies the CPUs that are isolated for DPDK applications and the CPUs that are reserved for house keeping.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create a `PerformanceProfile` manifest that applies to the labeled nodes and the machine config pool that you generated. The performance profile specifies the CPUs that are isolated for DPDK applications and the CPUs that are reserved for house keeping.
```

    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: "" 
----
+
[NOTE]
====
The compute nodes automatically restart after you apply the `MachineConfigPool` and `PerformanceProfile` manifests.
====

. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object with the `spec.deviceType` field set to `vfio-pci`:
+
.Example `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: policy-1
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator
spec:
  resourceName: intel_nics_dpdk
  deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 9000
  numVfs: 4
  priority: 99
  nicSelector:
    vendor: "8086"
    deviceID: "1572"
    pfNames:
      - eno3
    rootDevices:
      - "0000:19:00.2"
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true"
----

. Set the container runtime configuration for the `virt-launcher` pod by adding the following annotation to the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR):
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate --overwrite -n openshift-cnv hco kubevirt-hyperconverged \
    kubevirt.kubevirt.io/jsonpatch='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/configuration/defaultRuntimeClass", "value": <runtimeclass-name>}]'
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> Adding the annotation to the `HyperConverged` CR changes a global setting that affects all VMs that are created after the annotation is applied.

Reviewer 3: Up to you! 
```suggestion
Adding the annotation to the `HyperConverged` CR changes a global setting that affects all VMs that are created after the annotation applies. 
```

Author: Keeping as is

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-cluster-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a cluster for DPDK workloads

Use this procedure to configure an {product-title} cluster to run Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workloads.

.Prerequisites
* You have access to the cluster as a user with `cluster-admin` permissions.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.
* You have installed the Node Tuning Operator.
* The compute nodes have pre-allocated huge pages and Network Interface Cards (NICs) compatible with SR-IOV.

.Procedure

> . Create a `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object with the `spec.deviceType` field set to `vfio-pci`.

Reviewer 4: Small nit. I think this should be "an", not "a", because AFAIK "SR-IOV" is an initialism (pronounced "ess-ar-eye-oh-vee" etc), not an acronym.

> . Create a `RuntimeClass` resource by using the `PerformanceProfile` object of the Node Tuning Operator.

Reviewer: @phoracek , I am not aware of a difference between a `PerformanceProfile` for Pods and a `PerformanceProfile` for VMs.

> . Create a `RuntimeClass` resource by using the `PerformanceProfile` object of the Node Tuning Operator.

Reviewer 2: Understood, we can close this thread.

. Set the container runtime configuration for the `virt-launcher` pod by adding the following annotation to the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR):
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate --overwrite -n openshift-cnv hco kubevirt-hyperconverged \
    kubevirt.kubevirt.io/jsonpatch='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/configuration/defaultRuntimeClass", \

>         "value": <runtimeclass-name>}]'

Reviewer 4: I think line 27 has an extra indent. Shouldn't it align with line 26?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-cluster-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a cluster for DPDK workloads

Use this procedure to configure an {product-title} cluster to run Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) workloads.

:FeatureName: Configuring a cluster for DPDK workloads
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

.Prerequisites
* You have access to the cluster as a user with `cluster-admin` permissions.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have installed the SR-IOV Network Operator.
* You have installed the Node Tuning Operator.
* The compute nodes have pre-allocated huge pages and Network Interface Cards (NICs) compatible with SR-IOV.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: I like that it describes the individual steps clearly. The only issue with this is that it mixes steps that are required for the cluster configuration and those needed for namespace configuration. Could you split the list to make it clear what needs to be done once for the whole cluster and what is required for every new project.

> .Procedure

Reviewer: I'll change the place of this step:
> Configure the runtimeClass in the kubevirt CR.

1. Map your compute nodes topology - understand to which NUMA node your SR-IOV NIC is connected to.
2. Label the worker nodes to mark them as DPDK-enabled.
3. Create a MachineConfigPool object to represent the DPDK-enabled worker nodes.
4. Create a PerformanceProfile object with a number of isolated CPUs for your DPDK application from the same NUMA as the NIC (and reserve the rest).
5. Configure the runtimeClass in the kubevirt CR.
6. Create a namespace for your DPDK applications.
7. Create an SriovNetworkNodePolicy object.
8. Create an SriovNetwork object, and configure it to create the NetworkAttachmentDefinition object in the namespace you've just created.
9. Run the VM latency checkup to check that the network is properly configured.
10. Run the DPDK checkup.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: I did not mean reordering the list, but having two different lists. One would be guide to configure the cluster for cluster admin on day-1, the other would be a guide to configure a namespace for cluster admin (or powerful namespace admin) on day-2

> .Procedure

Reviewer 2: We added a suggested changes below. Closing this thread.

> . Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object with the `spec.deviceType` field set to `vfio-pci`.
> . Create a `RuntimeClass` resource by using the `PerformanceProfile` object of the Node Tuning Operator.
> . Set the container runtime configuration for the `virt-launcher` pod by adding the following annotation to the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Map your compute nodes topology - understand to which NUMA node your SR-IOV NIC is connected to.
. Label a subset of your worker nodes as DPDK-enabled, e.g. `oc label nodes <node_name> node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk=""`.
. Create a new `MachineConfigPool` applied to the labeled nodes.
. Create a new `PerformanceProfile` applied to the labeled nodes and the previously configured machine config pool. This profile should select `isolated` CPUs for your DPDK application and `reserved` CPUs for house keeping. Refer to the `PerformanceProfile` documentation for more detail.  
. Create an `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object with the `spec.deviceType` field set to `vfio-pci`.
. Set the container runtime configuration for the `virt-launcher` pod by adding the following annotation to the `HyperConverged` custom resource (CR):
```

XXX: This may have support implications. We are testing an alternative option. If that option will look ok, we will just need to drop this last step and add a note to the "Create a new `PerformanceProfile`"
